Coordination in Organizations

Coordination in organizations is a longstanding issue. Firms can use different tools to coordinate internally and with partners. Yet, the ‘mix-and-match’ of those instruments might prove to be demanding. I am studying this issue in the context of innovation management. 

In the setting of IP strategic management, I examine the combination of tools to coordinate the tasks’ structure with those to incentivize effort in the patents’ value chain. With Dennis Verhoeven (KU Leuven), we find that for a sample of 20 large organizations, coordination arises from three clusters of tools’ configurations. Each configuration highlights a distinct ‘mix-and-match’ in such a way as to enhance the qualities of paired tools and improve both the granting rate and speed for the patents portfolio. If you are interested in knowing more, read our working paper.

Another facet of coordination is the strategic management of partnerships. This issue is particularly relevant for innovation projects, where competences and capabilities may be not available in-house. With the outsourcing of tasks and processes, part of the responsibility for the products’ or services’ features shifts in the partners’ hands. That poses a natural challenge for the outsourcing organization, which loses full directionality and can maintain only partial supervision. How to take back control and insure a smooth coordination with the partners? With Dominique Demougin (TU Kaiserslrautern), we study how to solve this issue via the negotiation of indemnity clauses in outsourcing contracts with a formal model and an empirical analysis for the pharmaceutical industry.

If you are also studying coordination in organizations and you have research ideas that you would feel sharing with me, I would be very happy to brainstorm with you. 

Platforms

Platforms have become ubiquitous, and their economic relevance is prominent. They have transformed sectors, shaping the competitive advantage of long-standing players, their practices, and their dynamics. 

The microfinance industry has also seen an evolution due to the rise of digital platforms. Lendings that used to be granted in local networks can now aspire for a global reach; information transparency has increased. 

In front of these fundamental changes, some relationships might change, while others remain unaltered. For example, the comparison between microlending institutions becomes more complicated. Organizations can benchmark themselves with the other peers active on the platform. Vice versa, culture should remain a stable trait that shapes interactions in the micro-lending industry, when this one goes digital. But is it the case? 

This research stream is under development. Stay tuned for more content to come. Would you feel sharing your insight on the topic, don't hesitate to get in contact.  
