Teaching 

Page 1

Teaching is for me a wonderful opportunity to make an impact on society by training the new generations and leveraging their critical thinking and analytical skills. When in a classroom, I blend frontal lessons with interactive sessions based on class discussions, which should be stimulating, and solution driven. 

I had the opportunity of translating my research knowledge into teaching contents. My teaching portfolio comprehends courses at the bachelor, master and executive level in the fields of corporate strategic management, organizational design, platforms, and innovation. 

You will find the up-to-date overview of the courses I am currently involved at my institutional webpage.

(https://www.en.isto.bwl.uni-muenchen.de/team/ass_prof/giulia_solinas/index.html)

Page 1.1 Writing a thesis with me (Overview)

What
You are in the right place if you are interested in writing your thesis on topics related to digital platforms, the strategic implications of digital transformations, organizational design, and the strategic management of innovation. On these topics, I supervise both qualitative and quantitative studies, and literature reviews.

Look at the page topics for initial ideas that could match with my research interests. 

Code of conducts
- Please, contact me one month in advance respect to your expected registration date. We will use this time window to brainstorm a suitable topic and look for opportunities to collect data. 
- I am expecting to see you and receive your updates regularly. It is your responsibility to get in touch with me and schedule the appointments.
- I believe in collaborative and open research and I will ask you to share your codes and analysis results via Dropbox or a collaborative folder. 
- If you decide to work with quantitative data, I recommend using either R (open-source) or STATA (license-based). If you opt for STATA, you should have access for free through the library computers. Otherwise, you can buy a discounted student license. 
- Coding can be messy while you progress in your analysis. I recommend writing a final script to summarize the blocks of your code at the end of your thesis. Please, include a readme.file if the code needs further specification. 

Formal details
- At ISTO, we register the incoming theses on the first Monday of each month.
- Visit the ISTO institutional webpage for the formal requirements (length, page style, etc.).

Link to ISTO thesis webpage (https://www.isto.bwl.uni-muenchen.de/studium_lehre/abschluss/index.html)

Page 1.1.1 Topics

Topic 1
Platforms

Platforms have become ubiquitous organizational forms to coordinate market transactions. Platforms are nested in an ecosystem and, more broadly, in a societal context. The ecosystem and society can influence the platform's activity. The ecosystem affects the number of connections available on a platform and its density. Specific cultural values and social beliefs can drive users' behavior on a platform. For example, the pandemic offered spectacular reasons for users - medical practitioners and patients- to join a telemedicine platform. Still, platforms' diffusion might have faced the resistance of those users who rely on traditional medicine. Furthermore, the spreading of telemedicine platforms had to discount the role of suppliers and their effort in developing supportive technologies to the specialists to undergo an online diagnosis.
 
Students interested in the topic could study which societal dimensions are relevant drivers for platforms' adoption and what is the role of the surrounding ecosystem.

Topic 2
Organizational decision-making and digital transformation

Although middle managers do not contribute directly to strategic decision-making, they actively engage and provide information to the upper layers of the organization with sets of solutions. Individuals' risk preferences can influence how middle managers shape and frame data. Following prospect theory, middle managers who are risk lovers provide a set of solutions that will increase variability in outcomes and, hence, the errors of commission. Middle managers who are risk-averse are more likely to offer conservative solutions. In this case, middle managers might face the challenge of missing profitable opportunities (error of omission). The use of digital tools to pass information and ground decisions might affect the overall process. As the digitization of organizational decision-making is a recent phenomenon, we still have a limited understanding of its consequences on middle managers' actions. What is the role of digital tools in individuals' searching capabilities? Do digital tools extend or limit individual cognition? Do we observe any effect on cognition and framing at the organizational level? What are the implications of artificial intelligence and digital technologies on creativity, imagination, and intuition? How should organizations overcome resistance in using digital technologies and AI?
 
Interested students could consider developing quantitative studies and on-line experiments to study this fascinating field. 


Topic 3
Knowledge outsourcing 
In the knowledge economy, external know-how and skills complementing the in-house resources have become critical in the strategy design. Think, for example, to a pharmaceutical company that needs the partner's knowledge to develop a molecule that will be part of a more complex medical treatment. While there is a general understanding of the partners' characteristics that make the sourcing more successful, we know little on the boundary conditions. The degree of competition, the complexity of the sourcing knowledge, and the presence of limitations posed by institutions may facilitate or hinder success. 
 
Students interested in the topic could collect data from the FDA database and match with a proprietary outsourcing dataset from the pharmaceutical industry.
